---
layout: post
title: Sophomore Year - The year of perspective changing
---

As a child grown up in a developing country in Asia, where the society's definition of success is having the best grade in school, I have always been forced by my parents and myself to study really hard to be one of the best students in any school I attended. Most of the time I spent in my childhood was on studying and mastering all the subjects that school required. Extracurricular activities for me were really rare, and having time discovering something new outside of school didn't exist on my schedule. Having a 4.0 GPA at the best schools in the country is the top priority for me, my parents and the society.

With that in mind, I came to the United States striving to be a "*GPA scorer*" at school. And of course, I spent my first year in college just studying classes in school and ended both semesters with a beautiful 4.0 on my transcript, not realizing how many opportunities I had missed.

The first event that blew my mind was when I attended the [StartUp Weekend - Des Moines](http://dsm.startupweekend.org/) in the first semester in my second year. The event started on Friday and lasted until. There were around 100 people attending. Some people pitched their ideas, and the rest of us voted for the best ones to work on. I decided to work on a project called "Brickit.com" which is an application that turns a highly contrast picture into a LEGO mosaic. This application made me realize that how much I hadn't known about computer science and software engineering. I had read a lof of books about algorithms, data structures or school textbooks before, but I didn't know how to start building a web application when our team started discussing about technologies we were going to use for "Brickit.com".

I came home at the end of the first day and started finding all the tutorials introducing how to build a web application for beginners, and gained a little bit knowledge of Javascript. With that I was able to help my teammates a bit the next two days. My team ended up winning that competition. Even though I did not contribute much to the team, I was still happy because I found my weakness. I realized that only 4.0 GPA doesn't help me become a better programmer, and I knew exactly what I should go for: *learn how to build a real application*

After that event, I started buying a lot of books about how to build a web application from scratch. I got to learn the current technologies people are using in the industry. I followed the examples on the books and built some very simple applications. Then I decided to apply to some hackathons and got the opportunities to participate in [HackTech](http://www.hacktech.io/) and [PennApps](http://2014s.pennapps.com/), two of the biggest hackathons in The United States. My teammates and I ended up having two applications from those events: [SecondEye](http://lookout-proxy.appspot.com/) and [FlashCardLearn](https://flashcardlearn.firebaseapp.com/).

Not stopping at web application, I also learned and decided to build an Android application for CS309 - Software Development Practices - the most practical computer science class in school. This application helps students know a lot more about history of Iowa State University by answering a lot of puzzles related to buildings on campus. [Cyventure](http://camiwilliams.github.io/Cyventure-Website/)

Software industry moves really fast, and only studying in school is not enough for anyone who wants to become a solid developer. I am so glad that I had this new perspective when I am still in school. With that in mind, keeping myself updated with the new technologies and contributing back to software community will be my top priorities in studying computer science. 
